This is a robot that walks,
flies,
skateboards,
and slacklines.
But why?
A portion of this video was sponsored by Bluehost.
More about them at the end of the show.
There are lots of
bipedal robots out there,
and drones are ubiquitous.
But until now, no one had engineered
walking and flying
technology to work together
in a single robot.
- So it's the first robot
that truly integrates
the walking and the flying.
It's not just a drone with legs.
- [Dr. Chung] It's
LEONARDO and it stands for
LEgs ONboARD drOne.
So I think it's a pretty good name.
- [Derek] Why is this potentially useful?
- Yeah, so any flying vehicles
actually have to start from
the ground to take off.
And eventually, they can
not stay in the air forever.
They have to eventually come down.
But sometimes they have to come down
on the very challenging
terrain or some obstacles.
So it's actually a good idea to have
these controlLable legs.
So they can actually land
in a very interesting configuration,
or posture, or orientation.
- [Derek] But there are
additional benefits.
A robot like this is more
stable than a regular drone.
- I view these propellers
almost like arms.
So some people might say that,
oh, you guys are cheating because I mean,
bipedal robots do not have propellers,
but we are essentially
using the propellers
to do additional stabilization.
(robot whirring)
So basically, you generate
the lift or thruster force
to cancel some of the
the weight of the robot,
but that's really a secondary factor.
The most important thing is basically
posture or orientation, stabilization.
(robot whirring)
- [Derek] That is so cool to see.
- So the main facility for this lab
is this one.
It's a gigantic fan array.
- [Derek] I can see all the fans now.
- [Dr. Chung] Yeah, we have
- you can start counting,
but 1,296 computer fans.
Those are really literally computer fans.
- [Derek] How fast can it generate wind?
- So up to 15 meters per
second or 20 meters per second.
- [Derek] It's like a wind tunnel
without the need for a tunnel.
- Yes.
- It might mess with our
audio or with our microphones.
Whoa.
- The idea of the smoke machines
is to actually visualize the flow,
but also with all these
additional sensors,
like infrared cameras or radar and LIDAR,
how we can actually figure
out the kind of location
or environment around your vehicle
in the presence of this fog.
- [Derek] I wanted to feel
their power for myself.
- [Man] All right, you ready?
- [Derek] Yeah, let's do it.
(machine whirring loudly)
Yeah!
That was so cool.
I love it.
They use this facility to test Leonardo
to see how stable he is even
in different wind conditions.
(orchestral music)
- And we showed that Leo
is more robust than a drone
because a drone gets
blown away by the wind.
But then Leo does not because
of its ground contact.
So for example, if you go
hiking and there's like,
suddenly a lot of wind,
you're not gonna fall
because you have the ground contact.
But for a drone, it might be blown away.
(gentle soft orchestra music)
(robot whirring)
- [Man] Oh no.
- So we actually took
one of the whiteboards
that we have at home and we put oil.
So we applied perturbations to Leo,
and what's happening is as you
push Leo, instead of falling,
it stays upright, but it also
slides on the white board.
So that's an interesting capability.
So it's very robust.
- You said perturbations.
Are you poking the robot?
- Yes, without harming the robot.
We are gentle.
(robot whirring)
- LEONARDO is so stable and
good at adjusting its balance,
that it can skateboard.
(robot whirring)
That's a fancy trick.
Not many people can go
backwards on a skateboard.
How did you get the idea for
a robot that will skateboard?
- Should I say the truth
or make a nice story?
- [Derek] Tell us the truth.
- Yeah, so we went hiking and we saw
about 10 people going down
the mountain on a skateboard.
And then we thought,
wow, this is really cool.
What if we try our robots
to make it do this?
So we went to the first shop
and we bought a skateboard.
We modified it and we
tried it and it worked.
- [Derek] So do you
think it allows the robot
to save energy by riding on a skateboard?
- It's more efficient because
it uses the legs less.
The legs are basically used to steer,
and then it's just the propellors
that are used to accelerate the skateboard
forward and backwards.
So yeah, it makes it
save a bit more energy.
- The propellors of
course, make it possible
to skateboard backwards.
Something I struggled with.
It definitely would help
if I had a propeller.
(woman chattering)
But the real challenge was slacklining.
(upbeat latino dance music)
This looks incredibly unstable.
So I think this proves
the point of just like,
how important control systems are.
You can tell from the footage
I have no idea what I'm doing.
(Derek shrieks)
All right, I thought I would
be slightly better at that.
Let's give it another shot.
Okay.
Can anyone slackline?
Oh!
This is impossible.
I need a robot to do this for me.
(upbeat latino dance music)
(robot whirring)
I like the sidestepping technique.
Maybe I should have been doing that.
Kind of like copy his technique.
I tried to get some tips
by watching Leonardo.
(robot whirring)
But improvement was negligible.
I should've prepared.
You might think it's
cheating to use propellers,
but the robot is clearly not flying.
It is supporting itself
mostly using the rope,
and it's able to stabilize itself
even with the wild bouncing.
- So human professional slack liner,
you can see some of their videos,
actually they use arms stretched
and then they can balance themselves.
We don't have the arms for LEO yet.
We are planning to add a manipulation
so that he can actually carry some object.
But in the meantime, we
are using the propellers
to stabilize LEO while he's actually
walking on a slackline.
- It's funny because
like the robot feels like
it's got kind of a personality to it.
The way it walks and flies.
It's just totally something
you're not used to seeing.
- It looks natural.
Actually, I have to say that the sensors
are sampled at 1,000 times per second,
but the controller is
actually being recomputed
whatever signal you are sending
to propellers and the leg
joints is 200 times per second.
So it's pretty fast computation.
- [Derek] 200 times a second
it is adjusting what it's doing
to maintain balance?
- Yes, especially
propeller control signal.
- How does that compare to humans?
- Oh, humans.
So humans can do very sophisticated tasks,
but in terms of a fast reaction,
it's a very crude machine.
So humans, overall, has
a few seconds of delay.
Time delay.
- Is this why I was
struggling on the slackline?
- Maybe, but... (chuckles)
- [Derek] How do you feel about
the performance here today?
- Yeah, I think it beat you.
(Derek laughs)
- I mean, not that that's hard,
but this is very impressive.
If you imagine a robot like
LEONARDO in the future,
like the greatest LEONARDO you could make,
what would that robot look like and do?
- So definitely having a
LEO-like robot in space,
that would be amazing.
But of course, depending on where you go,
you might not be able to use propellers.
So then you would need to use thrusters.
- So eventually, yes.
We want to develop this
leg-based adaptive landing gear,
and then we give that to next
generation Mars helicopter,
or next generation flying cars
so that it can actually land
in very challenging conditions.
- And still move around once-
- And then once, yeah, once you land,
then you can walk over.
(robot whirring)
- Imagine if you have a cliff
and then you have the robot
just jump out of the cliff,
deploy the propellers and fly.
- [Derek] That'd be wild.
(quirky sound effect)
Oh, hey there.
This portion of the video
was sponsored by Bluehost.
You know, tech is now so advanced
that robots can skateboard.
So why is it still so
hard to build a website?
Make the process simple with Bluehost.
It's easier than ever to get started.
Bluehost provides you with
a completely free domain
for the first year, as well
as quick start templates.
So you can have a beautiful website
up and running in just minutes.
The templates are mobile ready
so your website is optimized
for both phones and
computers from the start.
Unlike the process of
building a robot like LEO,
you don't need code in
order to make your website.
Bluehost lets you customize everything
with simple drag and drop editing.
And Bluehost builder also allows people
to choose their own editing journey.
It's built on WordPress.
So at any time you can toggle
between WordPress core,
the traditional editing experience,
and the Bluehost builder
with no loss of functionality.
This is a first of its
kind builder experience.
So start building your
website today with Bluehost.
Just go to bluehost.com/track/veritasium
to receive more than 65% off.
I will put that link
down in the description.
So I wanna thank Bluehost again
for sponsoring this portion of the video.
And I wanna thank you for watching.